---
title: "Neptune OS 6.0 released based on Debian Buster"
layout: post
categories: neptune screenshots
tags: neptune screenshots
---

**The** Neptune OS team has announced the release Neptune OS 6.0 *Spike*. It is a stable release of Debian based GNU/Linux distribution coming with additional customizations. Neptune 6.0 is based on Debian 10.x *Buster*.

## What is new in Neptune 6.0 Spike?
In addition to updated packages and bug fixes from Debian 10.x *Buster*, Neptune 6 comes a set of improvements.

Neptune 6 includes Linux Kernel 4.19.37, which provides improved hardware support. With this Kernel, Neptune OS 6 users can take advantage of modern hardware features.

Plasma Desktop 5.14.5 is the default desktop environment used in Neptune Spike. This comes with some additional customizations specific to Neptune OS. The Plasma 5.14.5 offers better support for switching between multiple displays. It also enables the display of lock screen when switching users.

The improved Plasma Discover in Neptune 6 facilitate the upgrade of hardware firmware and it features a more polished look and feels.

The updated KWin features improved desktop effects and compositing. It offers a better user experience.

The Neptune 6.0 includes the following updated packages:
> - Chrome 76 as the default web browser
- Thunderbird 68.8
- VLC 3.0.7
- Amarok built with KDE Frameworks 5
- LibreOffie 6.1.5.2.
- GIMP 2.10.
- Audacity 2.2.2
- Ardour 5.12
- Kdenlive 18.08.2

Official [Neptune 6 release announcement](https://neptuneos.com/en/news-reader/neptune-6-0-release-170.html) is available in project's website.	
