---
title: "Ubuntu MATE 20.04 <em>Focal Fossa</em> released"
layout: post
categories: ubuntumate release screenshots
tags: [ubuntumate, release, screenshots]
---

**The** Ubuntu MATE team has announced the release of Ubuntu MATE 20.04 LTS with the code name *Focal Fossa*. This long term supported release of Ubuntu MATE is a result of 2 years of continuous refinements and improvements in the MATE ecosystem. Ubuntu MATE 19.10 was an interim footstep towards this release and was the most adopted Ubuntu MATE release so far.

## What improved since Ubuntu MATE 18.04 LTS
In this section, we are briefing some improvements in Ubuntu MATE since the Ubuntu MATE 18.04 LTS release. For a more [detailed list of improvements in Ubuntu MATE 20.04](https://ubuntu-mate.org/blog/ubuntu-mate-focal-fossa-release-notes/), you can check out official release notes.

> - [MATE Desktop 1.24](https://mate-desktop.org/blog/2020-02-10-mate-1-24-released/)
- Multicolored theme variations with a single click for those who don't like the default color scheme.
- Experimental ZFS installation support.
- Fixed various issues on Welcome, Brisk Menu, HiDPi display, irregular icon size, unresponsive Caja extensions, & other fixes.
- GTK front end for fwupd, which is used for updating firmware.
- Thumbnail preview for the minimized applications in the taskbar.
- Alt + Tab navigation with both keyboard and mouse
- Workspace switching with both keyboard and mouse
- New keybindings for improved productivity.
- Fixed mate-panel issue which crashes the panel when doing the reset.
- Updated applications.

## Ubuntu MATE 20.04 LTS *Focal Fossa* screenshots
Coming soon..



